The Joe Rogan experience.
To your product.
The conversation that I had yesterday with Francis and Ghana about
escaping Cameroon,
making his way to Morocco and being arrested seven times,
trying to escape Morocco and go to.
Cause that little piece of land.
And it's technically Europe in the north of Spain. Yeah. North of.
Okay. They would, they would take them after they arrest them,
they would hold them.
And then they would bring them to the Sahara desert and drop them off.
And they did that to him. Seven times. They literally tried to kill them.
They'd try to drop them off in the desert, no food, no water, no nothing,
no clothes. They did it in the winter.
They did it in the summer and the winter it's horrific because the temperature
drops to an insane level and there's, they have no transportation.
They have nowhere to go. And these Africans are doing this on a daily basis,
making this journey from whatever country they're in and Africa to try to make
it to Europe.
And he did it over the course of 14 months and he outlined his 14 month
journey of homelessness living in the forest. Dude.
It was crazy that.
Do you know what Eritrea, which is Southern Ethiopia?
So the only reason that came across my desk is there was an article and it said,
this is the only country where journalists are less free than in North Korea.
I'm like, oh my God, I'm getting to silver now.
And what they did is they took the journalists,
put them in steel cages and left them in the desert by and it's it's
uh, no one knows about this place. What's amazing about Eritrea is took the.
Journalist and put them in steel cages and just left.
Them to die. But the capital of Eritrea, when Mussolini took over Ethiopia,
it's a perfectly preserved Italian city.
So there's this like Fiat factory that they converted into like a museum.
So when you're in the capital as Mara, you're like in the Riviera, whatever,
some European city, and as soon as you step out, it's hell on earth. Holy.
So it, but that North Korea overtook them,
took back the lead of worst country for journalists.
But it's a fascinating country that no one knows about.
And the oppression there is absolutely insane.
How many journalists have they killed?
I have no idea. This wasn't recently. This was a while ago.
And it's the only country I think with no foreign journalists in it.
Like the thing that drives me crazy.
And I know you agree is that there's so many people who like read the New York
times or the new Yorker and they think they know everything about the world
because they just read the same publication.
Every else does where there's so many places that are so barbaric,
like Turkmenistan, whatever that it doesn't cross your desks.
So you don't even think it exists or it matters. It's like, well,
I'm sure I would have heard of it. It's like, no, no, no.
It just isn't sexy enough for someone to cover.
And these people are basically resigned to having a nightmare existence.
Not that necessarily we could do anything at an individual level and it's just
horrible.
Yeah. There's a lot of them. And the unfortunate thing is,
is too many to really follow. If you spent your day, day,
waking hours, paying attention,
all the atrocities that are being committed in the world,
you would never have time for anything else because they're constant.
Like we're just, we're, we're just so accustomed to this life here,
this first world, life that any deviation from that at all just seems horrific.
Like anything that goes wrong in America seems like intolerable and horrific and
a human rights violation. And like, this is the shining of the world.
And someone like you,
who's an immigrant can speak to this better than most you and someone also who
has traveled to places like North Korea and who understands the world better
than most we can talk about.
Yeah. This is the theme of my next book, the white pill,
which is just talking about people don't know how bad it used to be
and how close we came this country to falling in some very,
very bad, uh, directions. Uh,
and because it's kind of thing where if you don't talk about it, you, we forget,
you know, just what the past was.
People in this country have no idea about Stalin.
I'm writing a lot about him or the Berlin wall, the things that they did,
it's just, and you hear these, like I was just I'm writing right now.
There was this part, what Stalin would do is like he'd kill parents, right?
Cause they were traders or whatever, that kid who was left behind,
who now lost their parents boy or girl, whatever everyone knew.
If I help that kid, my family is under suspicion.
Why are you helping the child to these traders? Oh,
where you colluding with them in the past, because they're trying to find links.
So this poor kid is now a complete social outcast. Even family,
friends wouldn't even look at them.
Even the children that they were friends with,
wouldn't look at them and they fallen away in history. No one, I mean,
there's so many cases like this and Americans don't have any idea of what that's
like.
How recent that was too. It's not even a hundred years ago. Right? Right.
Not even a hundred years ago,
people were resorting to cannibalism with their own children.
They're cannibalizing their own children because they were starving to death,
thousands and thousands of people starve to death.
Like they don't even know an accurate number of how many people starve to death
under Stalin.
Margo Honaker who died. I think in 2016,
she was the head of education east Germany.
And she had a concentration camp there for children, which ended in 89.
That's not that long ago we watching shows in 89. You and I,
and what they would do is they would institutionalize these kids to make them
into good communists, to no singing, no humming, you know?
And it would be the kind of thing where like, there's a, there was this one,
one survivor.
She was suicidal because her stepdad kept raping her while you're suicidal,
you got institutionalized you. Right? So they put them sometimes in solitary.
And the thing is the people who were guardians in the, in this place,
they would sexually assault the kids with impunity and take them home.
What else she would do is, uh,
if parents were suspicious under suspicion of the state,
they take the kids and force good communist families to raise them.
They would take newborns and you would never see your kids again.
And your kids were discouraged from trying to seek you. It's,
it's the levels of,
of depravity that would happen in these countries.
We are so oblivious to in America. And it's like, all right,
if I have to be the one to kind of talk about this and to,
we should treasure people take so much for granted here.
They don't know how bad it can get.
Yet catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free.
Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan express.